# Benchmarks

To run benchmark scripts, please make sure to first move into the `benchmarks` folder.

## Example suite

We have prepared a suite of examples of liveness hyperproperties that can be parameterized with user-provided bounds and are programatically generated.

Our examples are organized into the categories below. 5 are verification problems (∀∃ with some liveness requirements), and 2 are synthesis problems (the dual, ∃∀ with some safety requirements). Click on each category for more information.

| Example                                 | Category |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------- | 
| [Paper](Paper)                          | Verification |
| [CMS](CMS)                              | Verification |
| [Isolation](Isolation)                  | Verification |
| [CNI](CNI)                              | Verification |
| [SelfStabilization](SelfStabilization)  | Verification |
| [Bakery](Bakery)                        | Verification |
|                                         |                | 
| [Controller](Controller)                | Synthesis     |
| [Planning](Planning)                    | Synthesis     |

## Benchmark suite

Our repository ships with all the examples used in the benchmarks of the CAV26 paper pre-generated in each category's folder.
You can re-generate all examples with the considered parameters with:
```
./generate.sh
```

Examples are generated by Python scripts available in the folder of each category. To generate examples with alternative parameters, check the instructions in the readme of the respective folder.

AutoHyper's syntax for formulas differs slightly from that of HyperLasso. Scripts for the generation of parametrized formulas take `hp`/`ah` as a parameter to determine which version is generated. Moreover, some models are more easily formalized in SMV declaratively using `TRANS` clauses, but these are not supported by AutoHyper. For those categories, alternative scripts are provided to generate models and formulas without declarative features.

Some benchmarks have alternate versions named `_assigns`. These are equivalent versions only used for comparison with AutoHyper. In these versions, unsupported SMV features are expressed as constraints in the formula instead of declaratively in the SMV models.

## Running

Inside the `benchmarks` folder you can then run all benchmarks considered in the CAV26 paper with:
```
./benchs.py
```

This will open a `curses` GUI that interactively reports progress as it runs benchmarks, using the following color code per benchmark:
* green: tool output with expected result
* blue: tool output with unexpected result
* red: execution error
* pink: benchmark timed out
* yellow: benchmark skipped

On exit, it will save the contents of the GUI to the file `report.txt`.

More detailed information is stored in log files in the folder `logs`. In particular, they can be used to inspect the causes for execution errors. You can pass the option `--debug=True` for more verbose logs.

You can run a particular group, e.g. `CMS`, with:
```
./benchs.py --group=CMS
```

You can see all benchmark options with:
```
./benchs.py --help
```

### Timeouts

The results in the benchmarks table of the CAV26 paper have been produced with a default timeout value of 300s, running in our test machine. By default, we are skipping benchmarks that are known to timeout. You can disable that behaviour with `--skipTimeout=False`.

When no witness is found, many of the benchmarks are configured to have running times close to the timeout (see the paper for the rationale). If benchmarks are timing out in your setup, make sure that you increase the timeout value with `--timeout=<seconds>`.
